I don't remember exactly what I was saying.
But anyway, you know, I was saying you put a cigarette butt on it, it would be back in your room before the thing went off.
But in this case, you know, the guys that were chosen to actually do this from our class set that thing up, lit it, and it went everywhere.
Well, the next day, our CO, our first sergeant,
had got very upset with somebody else, thinking they had done it, but he eventually had called us all into his room, and really it was good.
He had a gripe session where we were able to air out everything.
Now the victim of this babble bomb was the CO?
Yeah, no, I was trying to think whether it was our CO or our first sergeant.
It must have been our first sergeant then.
And you all were freshmen?
We were sophomores.
That was kind of unheard of.
And this is inside the window?
Yeah, we actually lifted the window up and set that bad old bomb on the radiator and shut the window back down.
You got there by the fire escape?
We were on the first floor.
I'm sorry, we were on the first floor.
You know, an interesting thing, our unit was split between dorm 14 and 17.
I lived in both dorms the two years I was with that unit.
And we were on the first floor of both of those dorms.
So we had no, we had
Who was assigned clean up duty?
Uh, interestingly enough the freshman hadn't got to clean that up because he didn't realize we had done it until he got the freshman in there and cleaned it up and then he found out later we did it.
That's when they had the gripe session.
And we've had some, you know, some drown outs.
When we were sophomores the freshmen were drowning out a lot of our, and what they would do is
open the door and just throw a bucket of water in there and then take off running.
And doors could not be locked is that right?
Yeah you couldn't lock your door.
Now there was a there was when you walked in there was a closet to either side and you used to be able to fix those doors to where the one door would hit against the doorknob one closet door hit against the doorknob the other one and so when somebody come in it would hit that door and stop they could open the door but it wouldn't
It would make noise, they couldn't actually get in.
You could do whatever you needed to do.
If you were sleeping, you'd wake up.
But you know, particularly as freshmen, they wouldn't let you do that.
If you ever got caught doing that, they'd yell at you.
Don't tell them what else.
So at night, you weren't allowed to keep the doors like that.
One interesting thing is that this
uh the sophomores next door to me were drowned out one night and we heard it and we took off running and i went into every freshman's room and put my hand on his heart until i found one that whose heart was beating fast and we knew we we knew we found it and that stopped that stopped it because even though they never admitted to doing it we knew who had done it because of all right and when you were doing that you were what year i was that was sophomore sophomore yeah sophomore we were sophomores uh
No, you were talking about drowned out, and it reminds me of one thing.
We had a, we used to have some, I don't remember what we call them right now, Haskell, but it was, we, we,
It's kind of like an all-out water fight out in the quadrangle there.
And we had one one afternoon and I don't know, usually an upperclassman would say we're going to take this other outfit on and they'd get out there and you'd get buckets of water and throw them at each other and you'd have water balloons and people would get up on the roof and drop water balloons on people.
It's almost like mini war out there.
And we got in one
out there one time.
It was really a very, very big water fight.
And it got into the dorms.
I mean, there were people throwing buckets of water all over the dorm and all.
And so, they, you know, they out came the, what they call those officers, tag officers, I think.
They all came in to bust it up.
And what they were doing is going down the hallway and seeing who was in the fight because you'd be in there with your clothes wet and everything.
And they came in, and I happened to be in my closet.
Well, when you open the door, it shut my closet door, and I just stayed in there.
And Chris Anthem was in there, and he said, freshman, were you in that water fight?
And he says, no, sir.
And he said, well, then how'd all this water get in your room?
And he said, I'm not sure, sir.
I guess it came in from the hallway.
He said, freshman, there is more water in this room than there is out in that hallway.
He said, now I'm going to ask you one more time.
Were you in that water fight?
He says, yes, sir.
And so he turns around and walks.
Well, when he left, he took, you know, you had a door card on your door that had your name and your class and your hometown and your class schedule.
Well, he took that.
the cards on the door.
Well, I walked out.
He'd taken mine too.
So, I mean, I'm sitting here trying to figure out how I'm going to set my defense up that I wasn't there, you know, and he didn't confront me.
And, you know, they rammed everybody in that water fight eight hours on the bullring, which is two Saturday afternoons from 1 to 5 marching.
And my cousin that I mentioned to you earlier happened to be
not the officer of the day, but the junior on guard duty that night.
And he was given that stack of cards and told to ram everybody eight hours.
And he came to my car, Chris's car, and he set them aside.
And he gave them back to me and told me I owed him big time.
But we did not have to walk the bullring because I haven't had a cousin at the right place at the right time, I guess.
Describe walking the bullring.
Well I never had to walk it fortunately.
You could be rammed hours directly and so I mean if a fence was serious enough they could ram you two hours on the bullring.
Otherwise you got like what they just called rams, demerits I guess.
And a freshman was allowed a certain number of those and it seemed like it was about thirty.
And then every time you got maybe two
some amount over 30 minute an hour on the bullring.
I never got over my limit any time.
Sophomore was allowed 20 or 25.
Well, what did happen on the bullring?
Okay, they would take them out and march them, I think for about 45 or 50 minutes and then you get a 10 minute break and then they go out and march again.
But you were in just close order formation.
And this is where?
Was there a place?
Yeah.
And I'm not sure I remember where they, it seemed like they used to do it over by Duncan Field area.
But they would take you out there and you would just be right face, left face and I think you had to, seemed like you may have had to march with a rifle too.
But four hours of that on a hot sunny afternoon, I mean I saw some of my friends after they walked four hours in there and I was always thankful I never had to walk it.
Describe the difference of being a sophomore compared to being a freshman.
Well, you know, it's kind of interesting in some outfits that where they were kind of easy on their freshmen, they were kind of hard on their sophomores.
Sophomore life in all it was cranked up to be either.
My particular unit was extremely hard on the freshmen, but we had a much easier sophomore year.
You know, they held you accountable for having the freshman in line.
But, I always think, I mean, there's a black belt and a white belt, you know.
Freshmen and sophomores wear black belts and juniors and seniors wear white.
And that's the real break to me was when you became a junior that you were.
And I don't think it's just because I got married and moved off campus and had a day student outfit.
But, I mean,
There was a status change there.
The sophomores were just a little better freshman, I think.
You know, your academics, you know, they'd push you on academics.
They stressed academics back then, but I think they knew how to, because you weren't doing, you know, some of my friends didn't have good grades, so then they would punish them by making them go out and run,
do a physical exercise, well then they'd come in so tired they'd fall asleep trying to study.
So I don't think they ever quite got that together back then.
I'll tell you, good students then, though, got off better than, I mean, if a kid had bad grades, they were on them a lot.
The kids that had good grades, for the most part, even if they were a little klutzy and everything else, there was a little different, I think their treatment was better as a rule, but sophomore was,
You know, you got to wear your hat inside buildings and it was more the, you know, you were no longer a fish, you didn't have to say sir.
And I always thought being a sophomore all of a sudden was kind of a good chance to do the things that I thought sophomores should have done and not do some of the things that I thought were bad.
And I think some kids
took that as an opportunity, well that happened to me, I'm gonna pass it, I'm gonna do the same thing instead of realizing that that didn't make a lot of sense and it wasn't helpful.
I never minded some of the discipline and the push-ups and things like that because I think it toughened me.
I've always said A&M isn't effort for everyone, but it was good for me.
I grew up a lot.
It prepared me for a lot of things which we'll get into when you want to.
The sophomore year to me was a little bit more fun because you knew the ropes.
Like I was telling you that fish day where you knew you could get away with things.
I think we did more pranks and did more fun stuff as sophomores than we did as freshmen.
Freshmen at times you're almost too afraid to do some of those things.
Those sophomore pranks were played on who?
Sometimes even each other.
Not always junior or senior?
No, but we do that too sometimes.
As you look back, do you think of any that were bad taste, bad judgment?
And pranks?
I can't remember any we did that were really bad.
We got into
We got into where a group of us were kind of drowning each other out, which just sounds kind of stupid, but that probably was something that shouldn't have happened.
But I haven't heard you talk about anything that was physically harmful to another person.
Not that I did.
Or degrading.
No.
That it was... I think there were some freshmen that experienced some of that when I was here.
I told you about the one guy that was...
You know, going around in circles and being, you know, certainly there's nothing morally wrong with that or any of those type of serious things.
I just think it was, I mean, if you want to, you know, do something, there's no reason to be down there tripping them.
Before, in case we don't get into this, I want to tell you about one thing we did as freshmen.
We had a, we always put up those spirit signs, I call them.
And these are, you know, the signs before football games.
that say you're going to be whoever you're about to play.
And it's funny, I remember there was a song popular then about Froggy Went A Courtin' and one of the signs somebody put up was Froggy Went A Courtin' and he did ride till old army tanned his hide.
And we were of course about to play TCU.
Well we were about to play SMU and my group
got a little carried away with their sign, and it was not in good taste.
And certainly not something I'd be proud to have my name associated with.
And you used to get together and do these on these sheets and all.
This particular sign, fortunately, I didn't have anything to do with.
But when it went up, I must admit, I was somewhat embarrassed about the sign, about what we were going to do to SMU and all.
Well, somebody censored this sign and so it had to be changed and so it was changed and stuck back up there with like a sew over deal.
And then the next day it was missing and all of our upper classmen, particularly our juniors, were furious.
So, we're in formation for chow and we were told as freshmen
that there better not be a sign hanging in that quadrangle tomorrow morning.
Period.
Or there weren't going to be any freshmen that, you know, would, you know, who could, you know, we were going to be doing so many push-ups that we'd die kind of thing.
Not die, but I mean, you know.
So, we got together, and this is real cloak and dagger stuff.
We went out and we got charged and we made mild cough cocktails.
And we organized this, there were about four signs and we put like four teams together.
And we sent this one team off to the further sign and when their sign went up in flames, all we did was throw them up against those brick walls and they broke the jar and the signs burned down.
Sounds more dangerous than it was, not saying it's not a little danger to it, but it really wasn't a danger of the property or anything.
And as soon as that one went off, the next brother's group, they would start running back, the next group would do theirs and all, until my group was doing the sign that was hanging on our dorm, and we'd throw it, and we'd all go in and hit the bed and go to bed.
Well, we waited, and we waited, and we waited, and we... The first group sign never did go up, or didn't go up for a long time.
Finally, it went up.
Well, when it did, the other groups got nervous, and they all threw theirs up at one time, and all our planning kind of went to pot.
All these signs are blazing.
We run back in the dorms.
We get in our rooms, and we look out.
And I asked this guy that was in the first group.
I said, what in the world happened to you?
He said, well, the KK stopped us, the campus cops.
They said, what are you all doing?
Well, we're out burning signs.
I mean, they ended up fessing up.
And the guy ends up saying, well, be careful.
Well, while those signs were burning, his car was parked down at the end of the quadrangle until all the flyers went out, and then he drove off.
And I thought, boy, it's kind of interesting that he let that, you know, he knew what was happening and he let it happen.
But, of course, they're scared of death.
They were trying to hide from him.
He's trying to figure out what's going on, chase them down.
He finally finds them.
And when he found out what they were doing, he said, well, y'all be careful.
And they told him, our upperclassmen told us we had to do these signs.
So he tolerated that.
But that was our big cloak and dagger story as freshmen.
All right, let's talk about academics now.
What was the routine?
of going to class, when, where, how often, what did you do in class, how did you prepare for class?
Well, we had CQ every night from I think 7 to 10, if I recall correctly, or 10.30 maybe, somewhere in that range.
I think it was 10.30 and you had to be in your room, excuse me, sitting at your desk studying.
That's how you prepared.
Obviously there were times during the day you could study,
go to the library and study.
Some kids did a lot.
The library was kind of a safe haven as Cushing then, which you know they're restoring.
But we, you know, your class schedule was whatever you could get and back then you had to go stand in line to register and it seemed like we did all that at Sevisa Hall if I remember correctly.
And you had to
You know, a freshman kind of low end of the pole, you know, seniors would register first and then pass on down.
I mean, often you were struggling to get in your classes you needed and you would, so your schedule was just whatever you could.
What did you take to class?
When I take to class, I took a book, I took whatever the classroom or the, you know, the book for that course was and I took a
clipboard with paper and maybe even had a spiral notebook in it, but I had a clipboard, I know that, and a pen and pencil.
Of course you knew all the engineers because they had slide rules hanging from their belt.
And that, you know, they were still using slide rules big time and everybody had to have one that was an engineering major.
There were other majors, I'm sure, too, but that was, we used to talk to our
relate to the engineers with us liberals.
And, you know, if you had three classes in a row, you'd just carry three books with you.
The classes were, I believe, 50 minutes, you know, and they'd start on the hour and end at like 10 till the hour, and then you had 10 minutes to get to your next class.
How regularly did you and your classmates attend class?
Well, it varied.
I didn't cut class.
Was the role checked?
Some classes it was, some classes it wasn't.
I just don't remember cutting class.
I cut class a couple of times to study for a major test for another class that I hadn't quite got together.
I mean, there's times I remember studying in the middle of the night and waking up, you know, with my head on my desk in the morning.
And so, I cut a class to study for that course.
I remember one time sneaking out of a class early, it was kind of funny, the seat by the door, the professor used to spend, I don't remember who this was, but he used to spend a lot of time, he was in the business school when I was majoring in the, I was an accounting major and I was in some business course, it wasn't an accounting course, but he would talk to the class and look out the window, you know, he'd sit there and talk and
and talk out of the textbook, which some would have a tendency to do, and so the guy sitting by the door, he sneaks out, and then there's just a movement of people toward that seat.
It just gravitates, and I normally didn't get involved in that one day.
I needed to get back and study, or I don't even remember for sure, but I just know I didn't cut classroom.
Anytime I cut class, there was a reason I'm not
I guess that's just the way I was raised.
It was always hard for me to do that.
But I got in the rotation of moving one chair.
Every time he'd look out the window, you'd move the chair until half the class would be gone by the time the class was over.
Were there some legendary nicknames?
Yeah, and I don't know if I can remember those.
The judge was a guy who taught business law.
And he really wasn't a judge.
Stewart, he had some great stories.
I don't know if you got into any of that or if you know who I'm talking about.
I know who you're talking about.
Yeah, but he had, you know, he had some great stories.
He's a great, great B-Law prop, I thought.
I mean, I really learned a lot.
I look forward to his classes.
Very good lecturer.
He used to always have case studies to talk to you about, and he had an incredible way of describing these stories.
He may have been a lawyer, I would assume he was the way he would use the vocabulary and all that.
You almost hear him up in front of the judge sometimes talking, but they called him the judge.
You know, I was trying to think, Walter Manning, who's still alive and lives in the community here, was a accounting prof of mine, but I don't remember him having a nickname.
You know, all those nicknames, there were some great nicknames, but a lot of them were in chemistry and, you know, one guy was called, seemed like Great Point, Great Point something or the other.
Dr. Dan, the Great Point Man?
Yeah, yeah, Dr. Dan, the Great Point Man.
What about English or history or political science?
Math?
Yeah, I know there were nicknames, and I just can't remember any of those.
I wish I could tell you, and maybe some of them will come back to me, but I didn't have a lot of those profs that had nicknames.
You know, Judge Stewart's only one I had.
And I thought for a long time he was a judge.
I found out after I'd been out of school a long time that he wasn't really a judge.
How large were the classes in numbers of students?
It varied, but you know, I remember most of my classes probably being in the 20s.
You could get into some kind of a lecture class that might have 70, 80, 100 people in it.
And some things like I took
and there'd be a lecture class, there'd be a lot, and then you'd break into lab sessions.
You know, you had those lecture lab combinations, and those classes would be large, but they're not large compared to what they do now.
All right, now describe the campus physically in your day.
What were the key buildings?
Well, the academic building, I always thought it was kind of the center of the campus.
And, you know, the MSC, Cushing Library,
Uh, Guyon Hall was here then.
Uh, I'm trying to think when they tore Guyon Hall down.
They tore it down when I was here, or right after I was 66 maybe.
Yeah, a little after I left.
And, uh, the President Rutter's home that burned was here over not too far from my dorm area.
It burned, if I'm not mistaken, during the Christmas holidays.
And, uh,
and they built the new home and they used the bricks.
Brick from that home came from some building they tore down.
I remember that.
I think Old Sonets Hall.
Yeah, the chancellor I think lived on campus near Sevisa Hall at that time.
The post office, that's a big one that was, you know, there at Northgate.
The dorms, there were basically two dormitory areas.
You had
Well, let me tell you a couple other things.
The military science building, the Trigon, was here.
The business administration building, I can't remember the name of that now, but it was, you know, that's where I had a lot of my courses were there.
Of course, military science, you could have been in the Corps, and I did have a contract that went into the Army for two years.
I was in that building a lot.
From the Northgate, the systems building, we call it, was, you know, kind of a landmark over there.
Kyle Field was single decked other than that.
The west stands there was that little section I think Bear O'Brien had built in the 50s that went up to a press box and gave us some second decks.
Each part of that structure is still under the second deck you can see.
I always enjoy looking at that.
G. Raleigh White, you know, and it's always amazing to me because we used to build, we had about 7500 fans here, students here, and we used to build that place.
It truly was a holler house on the ground.
And after I was married, my wife and I went to all the football games and went to most of the way games that we'd been driving distance even, and we went to
You know, virtually all the basketball games.
I remember missing a basketball game that was a big game for us, very important, because I had a job interview.
And that was kind of my introduction to the new world.
I was going to talk about the dormitories.
There were basically two places to live.
Well, there were three.
They had the area where the Corps is now.
And then they had the dormitories over where I lived, which there were in Northgate, which there were four there at the time.
There was dorm 14, 15, 16, which ran kind of in a row, and then 17 ran.
We'd go from north-south, whereas the others ran east-west, basically.
And then they had Hard Hall, and
Henderson Hall is where the athletes lived there, and that was over near where I lived in the Northgate area.
The chapel was here then too, by the way, I remember that as I'm thinking.
The Quack Shack was just right in that area, not too far behind the chapel as I remember.
And YMCA of course was here in the big time.
What did the YMCA, what activities were there?
Do you remember having any?
No.
The Koch building was over there.
That's another building, because we used to go in there to, I mean, that was registration, a lot of things in there, fees and that type of thing.
The Y, I don't remember.
I think housing was in there then, but I could be wrong.
I didn't go in the Y a lot.
Religious Emphasis Week, do you remember that?
Yes, remember Religious Emphasis Week.
Skona was, you know, big going then.
The other thing I remember is the big thing was the dances, you know, the combat ball, the military ball, the sophomore ball.
Describe those.
Well, those were special because you brought women, you know, you had a date come in for the weekend.
I was lucky because I had relatives here, so my dates could stay with some of either my cousins or my grandmother.
And once Mary and I started dating, she stayed with my cousins a lot.
who lived just on the south side of campus, just off a little bit.
How did a date get from San Antonio?
Well, Mary would usually ride with someone.
One time her folks let her have the car, which was interesting, because she was a senior in high school at the time.
I mean, some came by bus.
I don't remember any coming by train, although that may have happened then.
I don't think there was a lot of train activity going on then.
I've ridden the train out of here some back, but that's back when I was here in the 40s or the 50s, not going to school.
And you'd always, gosh, you'd go out to eat and you'd show them the campus and the dorms would be open during certain hours where they could come in.
Where?
Where did, if you were taking a date out to eat or party, where would you take it?
Well, Hotard's Cafe, our cafeteria was a place.
Youngbloods, I think, was a chicken place here then.
The Texan was, you know, here at Drive-In.
I mean, Drive-Ins, there were a number of those.
And I don't mean Drive-In movies.
I mean, of course, the Circle Drive-In movie was there, but...
that were drive-ins where you'd go eat.
There wasn't a lot of really fancy places.
Of course, I didn't have the money to do a lot of fancy eating.
Again, I was fortunate that if I had a date like Mary would be here, my grandmother would usually want her to come over and eat lunch Sunday.
My cousins might want to feed us Saturday.
Then the dances were usually in Cebiza and they'd decorate that place up.
Combat ball, you'd wear fatigues and combat boots and military ball and others you'd wear dress uniforms.
It was always special to have women on campus here.
Which of the dances was the most special?
Oh gosh, I don't know.
Cotton ball was another one they used to have here, I remember.
To me, I guess it was special as when you had your date was
worked out or not, you know.
And were there any big-time orchestras that did those?
You know, there may have been.
I don't remember.
You know, we had Town Hall back then.
That's where any of the entertainment big names I remember.
Benny Goodman, who younger people won't remember, but you would remember Benny Goodman came here for Town Hall one time.
And where did he perform?
At Guyon Hall.
I mean at Gee Wally, that's where all the performances were.
Ray Conniff, who was a big band guy that I used to like a lot.
Pete Fountain, those were just some names I remember.
The Peter, Paul, and Mary brothers four were types of entertainment that came in here, but that's away from your question about the dances.
I don't, there were orchestras, but I don't remember them as, you know, and I'm sure they were
I guess the military ball was probably one of the ones that was kind of special.
Obviously the senior rain dance was the big one, and I was married then.
But Mary and I used to go to those dances as married students.
Did Tessie's come down, and if so, how?
Well, you know, I don't know.
I never had dates with them, but they used to come down, and there'd be a group of them come down.
A lot of that would be if somebody had a date, they'd bring other girlfriends.
We played football in San Antonio my sophomore year.
Mary set up about eight of my friends with blind dates over there.
Were there moose pots and beast buckets?
Well, I don't remember moose pots.